Left vs Right
A Guide for Students
If you’ve ever wondered why you act the way you do, the answer may lie in which side of your brain you tend to use more. Although they’re generalizations, popular theories suggest that right–brain people have different skills and preferences than left–brain people.

As similar as the brain’s hemispheres look, they actually manage very different functions, which are attributed to different characteristics and abilities such as:

Often goal-oriented and well organized. Left brainers are critical thinkers and rarely absent minded.
Left brains tend to be...
Planner
Things are done in a planned and orderly way, like a to–do list.
Logical
Skilled at math and science, and sequencing ideas.
Realistic
Prefers to read realistic stories and to write non–fiction.
Rational
Feelings do not get in the way when making decisions.
Precise
Research is well documented and likes to read directions.
Music Critic
Prefers classical music. Dog lovers.

Slightly disorganized, unpredictable and emotional, right brainers are often good with people and philosophical.
Right brains tend to be...
Impulsive
Things are done spontaneously. Keeping track of time is not as important.
Creative & Artistic
Skilled at sports, writing fiction, drawing or playing music.
Psychic
Interested in the unexplained and mystery stories.
Emotional
Tends to ponder and act on feelings.
Intuitive
Solves problems intuitively and doesn't like reading directions.
Sound
Prefers rock music and can study with music or television. Cat lovers.

Tips for each
Now that you better understand your skills and preference, here are some tips on how to excel:

If given a choice, choose factual assignments as opposed to open–ended ones.
If you like to be in control, volunteer to be the team leader for study groups and projects.
Avoid free thinking teachers if they confuse you.
Work alone when you have a choice. You get frustrated with others who aren’t as serious.
Try not to argue with the teacher too often
Since you are good at organizing things, be sure to organize your notes well.

Remember to always prioritize finishing a project.
Avoid getting bogged down by thinking of all the possibilities when answering questions.
Be creative in essays by using colourful language.
Try to be more organized by organizing plans and thoughts.
Stay on track by writing down directions.
Try to avoid teachers who lecture a lot.
